1.  Within the same department: data base can be updated directly without any request.
2. Inter departments: request must be approved by a DA group member and faculty group member unless it came from a higher level group  
3. Inter faculties transfer: request can be made by any authorised user and approved by faculty group or higher level  
4. Transfer outside university should be approved by the university group.
5. Any administrative level user or inventory user can edit an asset that belongs to its department; same thing for faculty user, or university user; in order to make modification if he is authorised to do it.
6. all fields of an edited asset can be modified  except Ids 
7. a bulk entry file can be used  
8. Any DA group member or authorised  inventory group member asset is owned by the department  
9. Any faculty member can add all related departments inventory  
10. Any university group member can add all assets in the inventory  
11. A bulk entry can be used to add many assets 
12. request can be made by any authorised user  
13. After creation a request still pending waiting to be approved by an administrative level user according to that have this authority  
14. An inventory user should check returned asset and update inventory  
15. IT group members can create a new space and modify floor structure when they receive an exception request from any administrative  level 
16. Any administration level or authorised  inventory group member can display all pending requests waiting for approval from this level and approve those requests 
17. When request is treated user is notified by email 
18. Request is added to the waiting for execution list  
19. Inventory is updated when user receive requested asset 
20. Authentication is made by user name and a password for all users 
21. administrative level working on administration computer  
22. Any administrative level user can delegate another user to execute some or all his authorized actions. And this user acquires the role of inventory administrator